docs/12-Parallelism.md, before:

# Parallelism

When test execution time is then a coffee break it is a good time to think about making tests faster. If you tried to run them on SSD drive, use PhantomJS instead of Selenium, and the execution time still upsets you it's a good time to think about running tests in parallel.

## Where to Start

Codeception does not provide a command like `run-parallel`. There is no common solution that can play well for everyone.

* how parallel processes will be executed?
* how my parallel processes won't affect each other?
* will they use different databases?
* will they use different hosts?
* how should I split my tests across parallel processes?

And we don't have a single answer for you for those questions. Instead, we provide you with a customizable solution which can be easily configured to match your needs. Also we will share some ideas that you might find helpful.  

## What to do

Parallel Test Execution consists of 3 steps:

* splitting tests
* running tests in parallel
* merging results

We propose to perform those steps using a task runner. In this guide we will use [**Robo**](http://robo.li) task runner. It is a modern PHP task runner that is very easy in use. It uses [Symfony Process](http://symfony.com/doc/current/components/process.html) to spawn background and parallel processes. Just what we need for the step 2! What about steps 1 and 3? We have created robo [tasks](https://github.com/Codeception/robo-paracept) for splitting tests into groups and merging resulting JUnit XML reports.

To conclude, we need:

* [Robo](http://robo.li), a task runner.
* [robo-paracept](https://github.com/Codeception/robo-paracept) - 

## Preparing Robo 

Robo is recommended to be installed globally. You can either do a global install with composer or download `robo.phar` and put it into global executable path.

Execute robo in the root of your project

```
➜  ~/projects/my-project  robo
  RoboFile.php not found in this dir 
  Should I create RoboFile here? (y/n)  

```

Confirm to create `RoboFile.php`.

```php
<?php
class Robofile extends \Robo\Tasks
{
    // define public methods as commands
}
?>
```

Install `codeception/robo-paracept` via composer and include it into your RoboFile. We need to include 

Each public method in robofile can be executed as a command from console. Lets define commands for 3 steps.

```php
<?php
require_once 'vendor/autoload.php';

class Robofile extends \Robo\Tasks
{
    use \Codeception\Task\MergeReports;
    use \Codeception\Task\SplitTestsByGroups;

    function parallelSplitTests()
    {

    }

    function parallelRun()
    {

    }

    function parallelMergeResults()
    {

    }
}
?>
```

If you run `robo` you can see the respective commands:

```
➜  ~  robo
Robo version 0.4.3
---
Available commands:
  help                     Displays help for a command
  list                     Lists commands
parallel
  parallel:merge-results   
  parallel:run             
  parallel:split-tests     

```

## Sample Project

Let's say we have long running acceptance tests and we want them to be split into 5 processes. To make tests not be conflicted with each other they should use different hosts databases. Thus, before proceed we need to  configure 5 different hosts in Apache/Nginx. Based on host our application should use corresponding databases. And yes, we need to create 5 databases for them. We omit those configuration steps, as they depend on application itself.

### Step 1: Split Tests

Codeception can organize tests into [groups](http://codeception.com/docs/07-AdvancedUsage#Groups). Starting from 2.0 it can load information about a group from a files. Sample text file with a list of file names can be trated as a dynamically configured group. Take a look into sample group file:

```
tests/functional/LoginCept.php
tests/functional/AdminCest.php:createUser
tests/functional/AdminCest.php:deleteUser
```

Tasks from `\Codeception\Task\SplitTestsByGroups` will generate non-intersecting group files.  You can either split your tests by files or by single tests:


```php
<?php
    function parallelSplitTests()
    {
        $this->taskSplitTestFilesByGroups(5)
            ->projectRoot('.')
            ->testsFrom('tests/functional')
            ->groupsTo('tests/_log/p')
            ->run();

        // alternatively
        $this->taskSplitTestsByGroups(5)
            ->projectRoot('.')
            ->testsFrom('tests/functional')
            ->groupsTo('tests/_log/p')
            ->run();
    }    
?>
```

In second case `Codeception\TestLoader` class will be used and test classes will be loaded into memory.

Let's prepare group files:

```
➜ robo parallel:split-groups

 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Processing 33 files
 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Writing tests/_log/p1
 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Writing tests/_log/p2
 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Writing tests/_log/p3
 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Writing tests/_log/p4
 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Writing tests/_log/p5
```


Now we have group files. We should update `codeception.yml` to load generated group files. In our case we have groups: *p1*, *p2*, *p3*, *p4*, *p5*.

```
groups:
    p*: tests/_log/p*
```

Let's try to execute tests from the second group:

```
codecept run functional -g p2
```

### Step 2: Running Tests

As it was mentioned Robo has `ParallelExec` task to spawn background processes. But you should not think of it as the only option. For instance, you can execute tests remotely via SSH (Robo does not provide SSH task yet). Or spawn processes with Gearman, RabbitMQ, etc. But in our example we will use 5 background processes:

```php
<?php
    function parallelRun()
    {
        $parallel = $this->taskParallelExec();
        for ($i = 1; $i <= 5; $i++) {            
            $parallel->process(
                $this->taskCodecept() // use built-in Codecept task
                ->suite('acceptance') // run acceptance tests
                ->group("p$i")        // for all p* groups
                ->xml("tests/_log/result_$i.xml"); // save XML results
        }
        return $parallel->run();
    }
?>    
```

We missed something really important. We forgot to define different databases for different processes. This can be done using [Environments](http://codeception.com/docs/07-AdvancedUsage#Environments). Let's define 5 new environments in `acceptance.suite.yml`:

```
class_name: WebGuy
modules:
    enabled: [WebDriver, Db]
    config:
        Db:
            dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb;host=127.0.0.1' 
            user: 'root'
            dump: 'tests/_data/dump.sql'
            populate: true
            cleanup: true
        WebDriver:
            url: 'http://localhost/'
env:
    p1:
        modules:
            config:
                Db:
                    dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb_1;host=127.0.0.1' 
                WebDriver:
                    url: 'http://test1.localhost/'
    p2:
        modules:
            config:
                Db:
                    dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb_2;host=127.0.0.1' 
                WebDriver:
                    url: 'http://test2.localhost/'
    p3:
        modules:
            config:
                Db:
                    dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb_3;host=127.0.0.1' 
                WebDriver:
                    url: 'http://test3.localhost/'
    p4:
        modules:
            config:
                Db:
                    dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb_4;host=127.0.0.1' 
                WebDriver:
                    url: 'http://test4.localhost/'
    p5:
        modules:
            config:
                Db:
                    dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb_5;host=127.0.0.1' 
                WebDriver:
                    url: 'http://test5.localhost/'
```

Now we should update our `parallelRun` method to use corresponding environment:

```php
<?php
    function parallelRun()
    {
        $parallel = $this->taskParallelExec();
        for ($i = 1; $i <= 5; $i++) {            
            $parallel->process(
                $this->taskCodecept() // use built-in Codecept task
                ->suite('acceptance') // run acceptance tests
                ->group("p$i")        // for all p* groups
                ->env("p$i")          // in its own environment
                ->xml("tests/_log/result_$i.xml"); // save XML results
        }
        return $parallel->run();
    }
?>    
```

Now we can execute tests with 

```
robo parallel:run
```

### Step 3: Merge Results

We should not rely on console output when running our tests. In case of `parallelExec` task, some text can be missed. We recommmend to save results as JUnit XML, which can be merged and plugged into Continous Integration server.

```php
<?php
    function parallelMergeResults()
    {
        $merge = $this->taskMergeXmlReports();
        for ($i=1; $i<=5; $i++) {
            $merge->from("/tests/_log/result_$i.xml")
        }
        $merge->into("/tests/_log/result.xml")
            ->run();
    }
?>
```

`result.xml` file will be generated. It can be processed and analyzed.

### All Together

To create one command to rule them all we can define new public method `parallelAll` and execute all commands. We will save the result of `parallelRun` and use it for our final exit code:

```php
<?php
    function parallelAll()
    {
        $this->parallelSplitTests();
        $result = $this->parallelRun();
        $this->parallelMergeResults();
        return $result;
    }
?>
```

## Conclusion

Codeception does not provide tools for parallel test execution. This is a complex task that can vary depending on a project. We use [Robo](http://robo.li) task runner as an external tool to perform all required steps. To prepare our tests to be executed in parallel we use Codeception features of dynamic groups and environments. To do even more we can create Extensions and Group classes to perform dynamic configuration depending on a test process.

Commit message:

changed unit tests to use tester property instead of CodeGuy

docs/12-Parallelism.md, after:

# Parallelism

When test execution time is then a coffee break it is a good time to think about making tests faster. If you tried to run them on SSD drive, use PhantomJS instead of Selenium, and the execution time still upsets you it's a good time to think about running tests in parallel.

## Where to Start

Codeception does not provide a command like `run-parallel`. There is no common solution that can play well for everyone.

* how parallel processes will be executed?
* how my parallel processes won't affect each other?
* will they use different databases?
* will they use different hosts?
* how should I split my tests across parallel processes?

And we don't have a single answer for you for those questions. Instead, we provide you with a customizable solution which can be easily configured to match your needs. Also we will share some ideas that you might find helpful.  

## What to do

Parallel Test Execution consists of 3 steps:

* splitting tests
* running tests in parallel
* merging results

We propose to perform those steps using a task runner. In this guide we will use [**Robo**](http://robo.li) task runner. It is a modern PHP task runner that is very easy in use. It uses [Symfony Process](http://symfony.com/doc/current/components/process.html) to spawn background and parallel processes. Just what we need for the step 2! What about steps 1 and 3? We have created robo [tasks](https://github.com/Codeception/robo-paracept) for splitting tests into groups and merging resulting JUnit XML reports.

To conclude, we need:

* [Robo](http://robo.li), a task runner.
* [robo-paracept](https://github.com/Codeception/robo-paracept) - 

## Preparing Robo 

Robo is recommended to be installed globally. You can either do a global install with composer or download `robo.phar` and put it into global executable path.

Execute robo in the root of your project

```
➜  ~/projects/my-project  robo
  RoboFile.php not found in this dir 
  Should I create RoboFile here? (y/n)  

```

Confirm to create `RoboFile.php`.

```php
<?php
class Robofile extends \Robo\Tasks
{
    // define public methods as commands
}
?>
```

Install `codeception/robo-paracept` via composer and include it into your RoboFile. We need to include 

Each public method in robofile can be executed as a command from console. Lets define commands for 3 steps.

```php
<?php
require_once 'vendor/autoload.php';

class Robofile extends \Robo\Tasks
{
    use \Codeception\Task\MergeReports;
    use \Codeception\Task\SplitTestsByGroups;

    function parallelSplitTests()
    {

    }

    function parallelRun()
    {

    }

    function parallelMergeResults()
    {

    }
}
?>
```

If you run `robo` you can see the respective commands:

```
➜  ~  robo
Robo version 0.4.3
---
Available commands:
  help                     Displays help for a command
  list                     Lists commands
parallel
  parallel:merge-results   
  parallel:run             
  parallel:split-tests     

```

## Sample Project

Let's say we have long running acceptance tests and we want them to be split into 5 processes. To make tests not be conflicted with each other they should use different hosts databases. Thus, before proceed we need to configure 5 different hosts in Apache/Nginx (or just run application on different ports in PHP Built In Server). Based on host our application should use corresponding databases.

Alternatively you can prepare **isolated environments** using [Docker](https://www.docker.io/) or [LXC](https://linuxcontainers.org/) lightweight Linux containers. Each testing process can be executed in its own container. Spawn new containers and run more processes are much easier then manually creating additional databases and hosts. Also you are creating a more stable testing environments (no database, files, processes conflicts). But you to provision your containers as you regularly do when creating virtual machines. 

You can also think on running your tests on remote hosts using SSH.

In current example we assume that we prepared 5 databases and 5 independent hosts for our application.

### Step 1: Split Tests

Codeception can organize tests into [groups](http://codeception.com/docs/07-AdvancedUsage#Groups). Starting from 2.0 it can load information about a group from a files. Sample text file with a list of file names can be trated as a dynamically configured group. Take a look into sample group file:

```
tests/functional/LoginCept.php
tests/functional/AdminCest.php:createUser
tests/functional/AdminCest.php:deleteUser
```

Tasks from `\Codeception\Task\SplitTestsByGroups` will generate non-intersecting group files.  You can either split your tests by files or by single tests:


```php
<?php
    function parallelSplitTests()
    {
        $this->taskSplitTestFilesByGroups(5)
            ->projectRoot('.')
            ->testsFrom('tests/functional')
            ->groupsTo('tests/_log/p')
            ->run();

        // alternatively
        $this->taskSplitTestsByGroups(5)
            ->projectRoot('.')
            ->testsFrom('tests/functional')
            ->groupsTo('tests/_log/p')
            ->run();
    }    
?>
```

In second case `Codeception\TestLoader` class will be used and test classes will be loaded into memory.

Let's prepare group files:

```
➜ robo parallel:split-groups

 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Processing 33 files
 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Writing tests/_log/p1
 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Writing tests/_log/p2
 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Writing tests/_log/p3
 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Writing tests/_log/p4
 [Codeception\Task\SplitTestFilesByGroupsTask] Writing tests/_log/p5
```


Now we have group files. We should update `codeception.yml` to load generated group files. In our case we have groups: *p1*, *p2*, *p3*, *p4*, *p5*.

```
groups:
    p*: tests/_log/p*
```

Let's try to execute tests from the second group:

```
codecept run functional -g p2
```

### Step 2: Running Tests

As it was mentioned Robo has `ParallelExec` task to spawn background processes. But you should not think of it as the only option. For instance, you can execute tests remotely via SSH (Robo does not provide SSH task yet). Or spawn processes with Gearman, RabbitMQ, etc. But in our example we will use 5 background processes:

```php
<?php
    function parallelRun()
    {
        $parallel = $this->taskParallelExec();
        for ($i = 1; $i <= 5; $i++) {            
            $parallel->process(
                $this->taskCodecept() // use built-in Codecept task
                ->suite('acceptance') // run acceptance tests
                ->group("p$i")        // for all p* groups
                ->xml("tests/_log/result_$i.xml"); // save XML results
        }
        return $parallel->run();
    }
?>    
```

We missed something really important. We forgot to define different databases for different processes. This can be done using [Environments](http://codeception.com/docs/07-AdvancedUsage#Environments). Let's define 5 new environments in `acceptance.suite.yml`:

```
class_name: AcceptanceTester
modules:
    enabled: [WebDriver, Db]
    config:
        Db:
            dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb;host=127.0.0.1' 
            user: 'root'
            dump: 'tests/_data/dump.sql'
            populate: true
            cleanup: true
        WebDriver:
            url: 'http://localhost/'
env:
    p1:
        modules:
            config:
                Db:
                    dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb_1;host=127.0.0.1' 
                WebDriver:
                    url: 'http://test1.localhost/'
    p2:
        modules:
            config:
                Db:
                    dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb_2;host=127.0.0.1' 
                WebDriver:
                    url: 'http://test2.localhost/'
    p3:
        modules:
            config:
                Db:
                    dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb_3;host=127.0.0.1' 
                WebDriver:
                    url: 'http://test3.localhost/'
    p4:
        modules:
            config:
                Db:
                    dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb_4;host=127.0.0.1' 
                WebDriver:
                    url: 'http://test4.localhost/'
    p5:
        modules:
            config:
                Db:
                    dsn: 'mysql:dbname=testdb_5;host=127.0.0.1' 
                WebDriver:
                    url: 'http://test5.localhost/'
```

Now we should update our `parallelRun` method to use corresponding environment:

```php
<?php
    function parallelRun()
    {
        $parallel = $this->taskParallelExec();
        for ($i = 1; $i <= 5; $i++) {            
            $parallel->process(
                $this->taskCodecept() // use built-in Codecept task
                ->suite('acceptance') // run acceptance tests
                ->group("p$i")        // for all p* groups
                ->env("p$i")          // in its own environment
                ->xml("tests/_log/result_$i.xml"); // save XML results
        }
        return $parallel->run();
    }
?>    
```

Now we can execute tests with 

```
robo parallel:run
```

### Step 3: Merge Results

We should not rely on console output when running our tests. In case of `parallelExec` task, some text can be missed. We recommmend to save results as JUnit XML, which can be merged and plugged into Continous Integration server.

```php
<?php
    function parallelMergeResults()
    {
        $merge = $this->taskMergeXmlReports();
        for ($i=1; $i<=5; $i++) {
            $merge->from("/tests/_log/result_$i.xml")
        }
        $merge->into("/tests/_log/result.xml")
            ->run();
    }
?>
```

`result.xml` file will be generated. It can be processed and analyzed.

### All Together

To create one command to rule them all we can define new public method `parallelAll` and execute all commands. We will save the result of `parallelRun` and use it for our final exit code:

```php
<?php
    function parallelAll()
    {
        $this->parallelSplitTests();
        $result = $this->parallelRun();
        $this->parallelMergeResults();
        return $result;
    }
?>
```

## Conclusion

Codeception does not provide tools for parallel test execution. This is a complex task that can vary depending on a project. We use [Robo](http://robo.li) task runner as an external tool to perform all required steps. To prepare our tests to be executed in parallel we use Codeception features of dynamic groups and environments. To do even more we can create Extensions and Group classes to perform dynamic configuration depending on a test process.
